# Insert Statement

**Syntax**
INSERT INTO TableName [(Column1, Column2, ...., ColumnN)] VALUES (Data1, Data2,...., DataN);

SQL Statement

```
INSERT INTO Department VALUES (101, 'Testing', 'DownTown');
INSERT INTO Department VALUES (102, 'Testing', NULL);

INSERT INTO Department (DepartmentNo, Name) VALUES (104, 'Admin Services');

```

# Sequence

Sequence is one of the database objects.

It generates sequence of unique integers that can be used for primary key or unique values.

It is independent of users and tables, so multiple SQL developers or tables can use the same sequence.

One User/Table can never acquire the sequence number generated by another.

It is independent of the transacation whether the transaction is commiting or rolling back.

## Create Sequence Syntax

```
CREATE SEQUENCE SequenceName
[
    [INCREMENT BY integer]
    [START WITH integer]
    [MAXVALUE integer | NOMAXVALUE]
    [MINVALUE integer | NOMINVALUE]
    [CYCLE | NOCYCLE]
    [CACHE integer | NOCACHE]
    [ORDER | NOORDER]
];
```

* If none of the clauses are specified, then the sequence object is created in an ascending order, that starts with 1 and incremented by 1 with no upper limit.

* Specifies the interval between sequence numbers but if the clause is not specified then default is 1.

*  This integer value can be any positive or negative integer, but it cannot be 0.

**Start with** 
* Specifies the first sequence number to be generated. Default is 1.
* To start an ascending sequence, use a value greater than its MINVALUE or to start with descending sequence use a value less than its MAXVALUE.

**MAXVALUE & NOMAXVALUE**
* Specifies the maximum value the sequence can generate.
* It must equal to, or greater than START WITH, and must be greater MINVALUE.
* If this clause is not specified, the NOMAXVALUE is the default.

**MINVALUE & NOMINVALUE**
* Specifies the minimum value the sequence can generate.
* It must be less than or equal or START WITH and must be less than MAXVALUE.
* If this clause is not specified, the NOMAXVALUE is the default.

**CACHE & NOCACHE**
* Specifies the number of values of the sequence the database pre-allocates and keeps in the memory for faster access.
* Specifies NOCACHE to indicate that values of the sequence are not pre-allocated.
* If this clause is not specified then the database caches 20 sequence numbers by default.

```
CREATE SEQUENCE FirstSeq;

CREATE SEQUENCE SecondSeq INCREMENT BY 2;

CREATE SEQUENCE DeptSeq START WITH 101;

```

**Get the data from Sequence**

```
SELECT FirstSeq.CURRVAL FROM DUAL;

SELECT SecondSeq.NEXTVAL FROM DUAL;

```

> DUAL is the dummy table available in oracle products which has a single column of type VARCHAR.


**Sequence Used in Insert**

```
INSERT INTO Department VALUES (DeptSql.NEXTVAL, 'testing', 'podpunk');

```

* CURVAL and NEXTVAL can be used in the following places : 

VALUES clause of INSERT statements.

The SELECT list of select statement.

The SET clause of an UPDATE.

## Altering the Sequence

**Syntax**

ALTER SEQUENCE SequenceName (Clause of sequence to be altered).

```
ALTER SEQUENCE FirstSeq INCREMENT BY 2 MAXVALUE 1000;
```


## Dropping the Sequence 

**Syntax**

DROP SEQUENCE SequenceName;

DROP SEQUENCE FirstSeq;

